The film opens at Belle Reve Penitentiary
where Brian Durland or known as Savant is
in his break room throwing a ball around
at targets that he has precisely set up.
He even uses his skills to bounce
the ball off the walls and kill a
canary. He is then pulled away by Amanda
Waller as she assigns him to a task.
Savant is thrown into Task Force X the
former “Suicide Squad” alongside Blackguard,
Captain Boomerang, Weasel, Mongal, Javelin,
The Detachable Kid, and Harley Quinn.
Led by Rick Flag, the team travels to the island
of Corto Maltese for their mission. Upon arriving,
Weasel falls into the water and apparently
drowns since nobody knew he couldn’t swim.
When the Squad makes it to land, Blackguard
steps out and reveals he brought the team to the
mercenaries waiting for them on the beach. For his
troubles, he gets his face blown off. Harley goes
in blasting while Boomerang throws his signature
weapon to slice some heads off. TDK’s arms pop off
so he can use them as weapons, but ineffective.
The mercenaries retaliate and shoot TDK and
Javelin dead. Mongal attempts to bring a chopper
down but it crashes and she burns to death.
Boomerang is impaled with wood and
then shredded by the chopper’s blades.
Harley and Flag go missing while
Savant attempts to flee the chaos.
Although Waller warns him, she detonates
the explosive in the back of his head,
causing it to blow up. She then sends
in her second team to finish the job.
Three days earlier – Waller goes to recruit
Robert DuBois also known as Bloodsport,
a deadly mercenary who is there for putting
Superman in the ICU with a kryptonite bullet.
Her leverage against him is Bloodsport’s teenage
daughter Tyla, who is in danger of serving time
for stealing. The two argue loudly, as Tyla
makes it clear that Bloodsport was a bad father.
He goes to threaten Waller into releasing Tyla,
but she knows he is going to comply regardless.
After he relents, she introduces him
to her other recruits – Christopher
Smith also known as Peacemaker, a patriotic
mercenary; Cleo Cazo alias as Ratcatcher 2,
who has the ability to control rats and keeps one
named Sebastian close by; Nanaue or King Shark,
an underwater prince with a taste for human
meat; and Abner Krill known as Polka Dot Man,
a man with an unusual genetic disorder whose
specialty is throwing weaponized polka dots.
Waller informs the team about the situation
in Corto Maltese – the nation was overthrown
by a dictator named Silvio Luna and his
right-hand man General Mateo Suarez after
they executed the presidential family. They
are operating in a Nazi-era research facility
called Jotunheim where they are conducting
dangerous experiments, codenamed “Project
Starfish”. The Squad is assigned to find
Dr. Gaius Grieves known as The Thinker,
since he can lead them to Jotunheim and they can
destroy whatever is going on in there. We jump to
the facility where Luna and Suarez are observing
their work, a gigantic starfish alien creature.
Presently, while Team 2 is making
their way through the jungle,
they come across a group that they believe to
be mercenaries in league with the military,
so the Squad kills them before they make it
to the camp where Flag is hanging out with
his contact Sol Soria, a dissident whose team, the
Freedom Fighters, is trying to take Corto Maltese
back from Luna and Suarez…and unfortunately her
team was the group that the Squad just killed.
The team walks out of the jungle when they
notice Polka Dot Man glowing different colors.
He explains that his condition happened because
his mother worked at STAR Labs and experimented
on him and his siblings to give them superpowers.
His condition forces him to drain the dots out of
him or he will die, and he views all of his
enemies as his mother before killing them.
Before heading to Jotunheim, Flag
insists that they recover Harley.
Harley has been taken captive by Luna’s
men, but he brings her to his room to woo
her since she is seen in the country
as a symbol of anti-American anarchy.
Harley is initially charmed by him, and he even
asks her to marry him. However, when he reveals
his plan of using whatever is in Jotunheim
to eliminate anyone who threatens his regime,
even if it means killing children. This
crosses Harley and she shoots Luna dead,
leading to his men to capture and imprison her.
The Squad is being taken by Sol’s contact Milton
to go to a bar called La Gatita Amable where
they will find Thinker. On the road there,
Ratcatcher asks Bloodsport why he is afraid of
rats, as he is always recoiling around Sebastian
even though, according to Cleo, he sees good in
Bloodsport. DuBois states that his father once
punished him with rats, and it lead to his phobia.
When he asks her why she is so drawn to rats,
she explains that her father, Ratcatcher
1, taught her how to control them but also
treat them as family, but he was a drug addict
and ultimately overdosed when she was a child.
Bloodsport and Ratcatcher promise to one
another that they will get each other out alive.
The team makes it to the bar, but Nanaue
has to stay behind since he will stick out.
The Squad drinks and dances
before they spot Thinker.
They apprehend him, but the military comes in
to search everyone since they know that there
are Americans in there. Bloodsport sends
Ratcatcher outside with Thinker while he,
Peacemaker, and Polka Dot Man are all taken in.
On the road, the three subdue the gunmen and kill
the driver before their van is run off the road.
Ratcatcher and King Shark
arrive with Thinker in tow.
Harley is being tortured by Suarez’s men for
information, but she never budges. When she
is left alone with his guard, she snaps his
neck with her legs and sets herself free.
Harley proceeds to shoot down Suarez’s
guards before getting her hands on
some blades and Javelin’s…javelin to
slaughter her way through the guards.
Outside, Flag tries to lead the Squad to rescue
Harley until she shows up and joins them.
They then get Thinker and order
him to get them inside Jotunheim.
Once inside (and after Milton is killed),
Thinker leads the Squad to the creature that
he calls Starro The Conqueror. Peacemaker
and Nanaue set up bombs all over the place.
Thinker reveals to the Squad that the American
government was behind the experiments involving
Starro since they have been secretly funding
Corto Maltese for decades. Starro also emits
smaller starfish that attach themselves to
human faces and take over their bodies like
zombies, and there are slews of corpses of
Starro’s other victims all over the facility.
Starro breaks free and grabs Thinker, tearing him
in two and splattering him across the wall. Flag
attempts to secure the hard drive with evidence
against the American government to deliver to the
press, but Peacemaker turns on him per Waller’s
orders. The two fight each other, with Flag nearly
choking Peacemaker to death, but he stabs Flag
through the heart with a piece of a broken sink.
Ratcatcher witnesses this and grabs the flash
drive while Peacemaker attempts to kill her.
Meanwhile, Nanaue comes across
small fish that mimic him,
until their aquarium is broken
and they begin to leech onto him,
all while Bloodsport, Harley, and Polka Dot
Man try to survive the crumbling facility.
Bloodsport manages to survive
going through several stories
before he lands and witnesses Peacemaker
getting ready to execute Ratcatcher.
The two mercs draw their guns and fire their
bullets at each other, with Bloodsport’s bullet
breaking through Peacemaker’s and striking
him in the throat, bringing him down.
King Shark falls outside and is shot by
Suarez’s men, but he rises and bites the
head off one gunmen before the rest of the Squad
runs out of the facility as Starro bursts out.
It releases more starfish
that kill Suarez and his men
and then proceeds to make its way into the city.
Waller declares the mission over
since the evidence is destroyed,
but the surviving members want to save the city.
Waller threatens to detonate their devices and
kill them on the spot until her subordinate,
Flo Crawley brains her with a golf club and has
the rest of the team guide the Squad to save
the city. At the same time, Sol and her team
execute the remaining members of the regime to
stage their coup and take their country back.
Bloodsport begins blasting away at
Starro while King Shark goes “nom
nom” on the alien and starts to bite into
it. Polka Dot Man envisions Starro as his
mother and unleashes his polka dots to burn
Starro’s leg, but the alien crushes him.
Ratcatcher tries to use her
beacon to summon the rats,
but Bloodsport pushes her out of the way before
she is killed. She then uses the beacon and gets
practically every rat in the city to take down the
infected citizens and start to take Starro down.
Harley then charges into Starro’s eye with the
javelin and breaks through before the rats make
their way inside and take Starro down from the
inside, finally killing it and saving the city.
The Squad’s heroics are broadcast on the news,
and Tyla acknowledges her father as a hero.
Bloodsport contacts Waller, ordering
her to let the team and Tyla go free,
or they will leak the evidence
from the laboratory to the press.
She reluctantly agrees and calls
for the chopper to bring them home.
As the team rests, Sebastian crawls onto
Bloodsport’s leg, and he begins to pet the rat.
Mid-Credits Scene: Weasel is
shown to still be alive and starts
wandering into the jungle of Corto Maltese.
Post-Credits Scene: Waller’s subordinates John
Economos and Emilia Harcourt are brought to a room
where they find that Peacemaker is still alive,
because Waller needs him, as Harcourt
puts it, “to save the world.”